Small module added to show how to integrate KServe RawDeployment (#762)
opendatahub-io/opendatahub-documentation: modules/enabling-trustyai-kserve-integration.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE

[id='assemblies/modules/enabling-trustyai-kserve-integration{context}']

> = Enabling TrustyAI Integration with KServe RawDeployment

Reviewer: We call KServe RawDeployment "standard deployment mode" in our docs and the UI. I'm going to suggest we change all instances of "RawDeployment" and "Serverless" to "standard" and "advanced" respectively to mirror the UI. We can mention RawDeployment and point off to this topic as well if that would be helpful.
```suggestion
= Enabling TrustyAI Integration with standard model deployment
```
https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_ai_self-managed/2.19/html/serving_models/serving-large-models_serving-large-models#about-kserve-deployment-modes_serving-large-models

[role='_abstract']

> TrustyAI can be used with KServe Serverless and KServe RawDeployment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TrustyAI can be used with standard and advanced model deployments. Standard deployment mode is based on KServe RawDeployment and advanced deployment mode is based on KServe Serverless. For more information about deployment modes, see link:[About KServe deployment modes].
```
add link in when you get a chance :)

> To integrate KServe RawDeployment models with the TrustyAI service, you must first update the KServe ConfigMap, then create another ConfigMap in your model's namespace to hold the Certificate Authority (CA) certificate. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the TrustyAI service with standard  model deployments, you must first update the KServe ConfigMap, then create another ConfigMap in your model's namespace to hold the Certificate Authority (CA) certificate. 
```

[NOTE]
--

> KServe Serverless does not require this additional setup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Advanced deployment mode does not require this additional setup. 
```

--

.Prerequisites
* You have cluster administrator privileges for your {productname-short} cluster.

> * You have access to the data science cluster.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this means here? What data science cluster?

* You have installed {productname-long}.

> 

Reviewer: "You have enabled the model serving platform in either standard or advanced mode" ? perhaps?

.Procedure
. Update the KServe ConfigMap (`inferenceservice-config`) in the {productname-short} UI:

> .. Go to the OpenShift console and click *Workloads* → *ConfigMaps*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. From the OpenShift console, click *Workloads* → *ConfigMaps*
```

ifdef::upstream[]

> .. Select the `opendatahub-ods-applications` namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select the `opendatahub-ods-applications` namespace.
```

endif::[]
ifndef::upstream[]

> .. Select the `redhat-ods-applications` namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select the `redhat-ods-applications` namespace.
```

endif::[]

> .. Find and edit the `inferenceservice-config` ConfigMap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Find and edit the `inferenceservice-config` ConfigMap.
```

> .. Add the following to the logger key:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Add the following parameters to the logger key:
```

+
[source,json]
----
 "caBundle": "kserve-logger-ca-bundle",
 "caCertFile": "service-ca.crt",
 "tlsSkipVerify": false
----
+

> . Input the following code to create a ConfigMap in your model's namespace to hold the CA certificate:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Use the following code to create a ConfigMap in your model's namespace to hold the CA certificate:
```

+
[source,json]
----   
  apiVersion: v1
   kind: ConfigMap
   metadata:
     name: kserve-logger-ca-bundle
     namespace: <your-model-namespace>
     annotations:
       service.beta.openshift.io/inject-cabundle: "true"
   data: {}
----
+
. Deploy the model and the TrustyAI service. 

[NOTE]
--
The `caBundle` name can be any valid Kubernetes name, as long as it matches the name you used in the KServe ConfigMap.
The `caCertFile` needs to match the cert name available in the CA bundle.
--

.Verification

> When you send inferences to your KServe Raw model, TrustyAI now acknowledges the data capture in the output logs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you send inferences to your model, TrustyAI acknowledges the data capture in the output logs. 
```
AFAIK there's not a difference between the actual model deployed in standard and advanced - just the setup to deploying the model was different.

Reviewer 2: Additionally, you send an "inference request" to your model. Not "inferences".

Author: WRT TrustyAI-  If the end-user tries to send inferences to the model,  and they don't do these two steps, they won't see anything on TrustyAI's logs or TrustyAI won't be capturing any payloads. S
So the verification is that the end-user has successfully completed these steps is that, when sending inferences to the KServe Raw model, they'll see that TrustyAI has captured the data in the logs.

[NOTE]
--

> If you do not observe any data on the Trusty AI logs, try redeploying the pod after completing these configuration steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not observe any data on the Trusty AI logs, complete these configuration steps and redeploy the pod.
```

endif::[]
ifndef::upstream[]
For more information about deployment modes, see link:{rhoaidocshome}{default-format-url}/serving_models/serving-large-models_serving-large-models#about-kserve-deployment-modes_serving-large-models[About KServe deployment modes].
endif::[]

To use the TrustyAI service with standard model deployments, you must first update the KServe ConfigMap, then create another ConfigMap in your model's namespace to hold the Certificate Authority (CA) certificate. 

[NOTE]
--
Advanced deployment mode does not require this additional setup. 
--

.Prerequisites
* You have installed {productname-long}.
* You have cluster administrator privileges for your {productname-short} cluster.
* You have access to a data science cluster that has TrustyAI enabled.
* You have enabled the model serving platform in either standard or advanced mode.

.Procedure
. Update the KServe ConfigMap (`inferenceservice-config`) in the {productname-short} UI:
.. From the OpenShift console, click *Workloads* → *ConfigMaps*.
ifdef::upstream[]

> .. Select the `opendatahub-ods-applications` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. From the project drop-down list, select the `opendatahub-ods-applications` namespace.
```

endif::[]
ifndef::upstream[]

> .. Select the `redhat-ods-applications` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. From the project drop-down list, select the `redhat-ods-applications` namespace.
```

endif::[]

> .. Find and edit the `inferenceservice-config` ConfigMap.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Find the `inferenceservice-config` ConfigMap. Click the options menu (&#8942;) for that ConfigMap, and then click *Edit ConfigMap*.
```

.. Add the following parameters to the logger key:
+
[source,json]
----
 "caBundle": "kserve-logger-ca-bundle",
 "caCertFile": "service-ca.crt",
 "tlsSkipVerify": false
----

> +

Reviewer: Is there a save, submit, or refresh button that they need to hit after adding this?

Author: I've added it.

> . Use the following code to create a ConfigMap in your model's namespace to hold the CA certificate:

Reviewer: The actual steps for this are missing - you can create a ConfigMap from the UI or with `oc`. Could you get access to a cluster and document these steps as you verify them?

Author: Hi Em, I'm not sure what you mean by oc? If you mean by CLI, then the decision was made in a meeting with the SME not to detail CLI steps.

Author: I've fleshed out the ConfigMap creation steps.

+
[source,json]
----   
  apiVersion: v1
   kind: ConfigMap
   metadata:
     name: kserve-logger-ca-bundle
     namespace: <your-model-namespace>
     annotations:
       service.beta.openshift.io/inject-cabundle: "true"
   data: {}
----
+

> . Deploy the model and the TrustyAI service. 

Reviewer: How do they actually deploy the model and the service?

Author: This was just a 'continue on to the next step in your workflow' type of point and isn't strictly necessary.
